Optimization docs (#6907)
PyTorchLightning/pytorch-lightning: docs/source/common/optimizers.rst

.. testcode:: python

   # step every batch

   def __init__(self):
       super().__init__()
       self.automatic_optimization = False

   def training_step(self, batch, batch_idx):
       # do foward, backward, and optimization
       ...

Here is the same example as above using a ``closure``.
       # single scheduler
       sch = self.lr_schedulers()
       sch.step()

       # multiple schedulers
       sch1, sch2 = self.lr_schedulers()
       sch1.step()
       sch2.step()

.. testcode:: python

    def __init__(self):
        self.automatic_optimization = False
   def __init__(self):
       super().__init__()
       self.automatic_optimization = False

    def training_step(self, batch, batch_idx):
        opt = self.optimizers()
   def training_step(self, batch, batch_idx):
       # do forward, backward, and optimization
       ...

        def closure():
            # Only zero_grad on the first batch to accumulate gradients
            is_first_batch_to_accumulate = batch_idx % 2 == 0
            if is_first_batch_to_accumulate:

>                 opt.zero_grad()

Author: When using `LBFGS`-like optimizers which require a closure function to reevaluate the model, the closure always has to run `zero_grad` to make them work properly, so "gradient accumulation + closure" is not supported in PL as well as PyTorch, I think.

************
Optimization
************
Lightning offers two modes for managing the optimization process:

- automatic optimization
- manual optimization

For the majority of research cases, **automatic optimization** will do the right thing for you and it is what most
users should use.

For advanced/expert users who want to do esoteric optimization schedules or techniques, use **manual optimization**.

-----

Manual optimization
===================
For advanced research topics like reinforcement learning, sparse coding, or GAN research, it may be desirable to
manually manage the optimization process.

This is only recommended for experts who need ultimate flexibility.
Lightning will handle only precision and accelerators logic.
The users are left with ``optimizer.zero_grad()``, gradient accumulation, model toggling, etc..

To manually optimize, do the following:

> * Set the ``automatic_optimization`` property to ``False`` in your ``LightningModule`` ``__init__`` function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Set the ``self.automatic_optimization = False`` in your ``LightningModule``'s ``__init__``.
```

* Use the following functions and call them manually:

>   * ``optimizer.zero_grad()`` to clear the gradients from the previous training step
>   * ``self.manual_backward(loss)`` instead of ``loss.backward()``
>   * ``optimizer.step()`` to update your model parameters

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * ``self.optimizers()`` to access your optimizers (one or multiple)
  * ``optimizer.zero_grad()`` to clear the gradients from the previous training step
  * ``self.manual_backward(loss)`` instead of ``loss.backward()``
  * ``optimizer.step()`` to update your model parameters
```

        def __init__(self):
            super().__init__()
            # Important: This property activates manual optimization.
            self.automatic_optimization = False

        def training_step(batch, batch_idx):
            opt = self.optimizers()
            opt.zero_grad()
            loss = self.compute_loss(batch)
            self.manual_backward(loss)
            opt.step()

.. warning::
   Before 1.2, ``optimizer.step()`` was calling ``optimizer.zero_grad()`` internally.

>    From 1.2, it is left to the users expertise.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   From 1.2, it is left to the user's expertise.
```

        def __init__(self):
            super().__init__()
            # Important: This property activates manual optimization.
            self.automatic_optimization = False

        def training_step(batch, batch_idx):
            opt = self.optimizers()
            opt.zero_grad()
            loss = self.compute_loss(batch)
            self.manual_backward(loss)
            opt.step()

.. warning::
   Before 1.2, ``optimizer.step()`` was calling ``optimizer.zero_grad()`` internally.
   From 1.2, it is left to the user's expertise.

.. tip::

>    * ``self.optimizers()`` will return :class:`~pytorch_lightning.core.optimizer.LightningOptimizer` objects. You can
>      access your own optimizer with ``optimizer.optimizer``. However, if you use your own optimizer to perform a step,
>      Lightning won't be able to support accelerators and precision for you.
>    * Be careful where you call ``optimizer.zero_grad()``, or your model won't converge.
>      It is good practice to call ``optimizer.zero_grad()`` before ``self.manual_backward(loss)``.

Reviewer: Remove this now that we have it at the bottom?

```suggestion
   Be careful where you call ``optimizer.zero_grad()``, or your model won't converge.
   It is good practice to call ``optimizer.zero_grad()`` before ``self.manual_backward(loss)``.
```

Author: I would leave it in both manual and automatic optimization sections as one might only look at a section of their interest, but the decision is yours. Should I apply your suggestion here?

            d_opt = torch.optim.Adam(self.D.parameters(), lr=1e-5)
            return g_opt, d_opt

-----

Learning rate scheduling [manual]
---------------------------------
You can call ``lr_scheduler.step()`` at arbitrary intervals.
Use ``self.lr_schedulers()`` in  your :class:`~pytorch_lightning.LightningModule` to access any learning rate schedulers
defined in your :meth:`~pytorch_lightning.LightningModule.configure_optimizers`.

.. warning::
   * Before 1.3, Lightning automatically called ``lr_scheduler.step()`` in both automatic and manual optimization. From

>      1.3, ``lr_scheduler.step()`` is now for the user to call at arbitrary intervals.

Author: The manual lr_scheduler.step PR (#6825) couldn't make it to 1.3? If so, this needs to be updated.

Reviewer 2: In my opinion they should both make it in 
cc @edenlightning

            d_opt = torch.optim.Adam(self.D.parameters(), lr=1e-5)
            return g_opt, d_opt

-----

Learning rate scheduling [manual]
---------------------------------
You can call ``lr_scheduler.step()`` at arbitrary intervals.

> Use ``self.lr_schedulers()`` in LightningModule to access your learning rate schedulers defined

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use ``self.lr_schedulers()`` in  your :class:`~pytorch_lightning.LightningModule` to access any learning rate schedulers defined
```

> in your ``LightningModule.configure_optimizers()``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
in your :meth:`~pytorch_lightning.LightningModule.configure_optimizers`.
```

.. warning::

>    * Before 1.3, Lightning automatically calls ``lr_scheduler.step()`` in both automatic and manual optimization. From

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * Before 1.3, Lightning automatically called ``lr_scheduler.step()`` in both automatic and manual optimization. From
```

>      1.3, ``lr_scheduler.step()`` is disabled in manual optimization so that you can call it at arbitrary intervals.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     1.3, ``lr_scheduler.step()`` is now for the user to call at arbitrary intervals.
```

   * Note that the lr_dict keys, such as ``"step"`` and ``""interval"``, will be ignored even if they are provided in

>      your ``configure_optimizers()`` in manual optimization.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     your ``configure_optimizers()`` during manual optimization.
```

When there are schedulers in which the ``.step()`` method is conditioned on a metric value, such as the
:class:`~torch.optim.lr_scheduler.ReduceLROnPlateau` scheduler, Lightning requires that the output from
:meth:`~pytorch_lightning.LightningModule.configure_optimizers` should be dicts, one for each optimizer, with the
keyword ``"monitor"`` set to metric that the scheduler should be conditioned on.

.. testcode::

    # The ReduceLROnPlateau scheduler requires a monitor
    def configure_optimizers(self):
        optimizer = Adam(...)
        return {
            'optimizer': optimizer,
            'lr_scheduler': ReduceLROnPlateau(optimizer, ...),
            'monitor': 'metric_to_track',
        }

    # In the case of two optimizers, only one using the ReduceLROnPlateau scheduler
    def configure_optimizers(self):
       optimizer1 = Adam(...)
       optimizer2 = SGD(...)
       scheduler1 = ReduceLROnPlateau(optimizer1, ...)
       scheduler2 = LambdaLR(optimizer2, ...)
       return (
           {'optimizer': optimizer1, 'lr_scheduler': scheduler1, 'monitor': 'metric_to_track'},
           {'optimizer': optimizer2, 'lr_scheduler': scheduler2},
       )

.. note::

>    Metrics can be made available to condition on by simply logging it using ``self.log('metric_to_track', metric_val)``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Metrics can be made available to monitor by simply logging it using ``self.log('metric_to_track', metric_val)``
```

        # update params
        optimizer.step(closure=optimizer_closure)

.. note::
    The default :meth:`~pytorch_lightning.LightningModule.optimizer_step` is relying on the internal
    :class:`~pytorch_lightning.core.optimizer.LightningOptimizer` to properly perform a step. It handles TPUs, AMP,
    gradient accumulation and much more ...

.. testcode:: python

    # function hook in LightningModule
    def optimizer_step(self, epoch, batch_idx, optimizer, optimizer_idx, optimizer_closure, on_tpu=False, using_native_amp=False, using_lbfgs=False):
        optimizer.step(closure=optimizer_closure)

.. note::
    To access your wrapped Optimizer from :class:`~pytorch_lightning.core.optimizer.LightningOptimizer`, do as follow.

.. testcode:: python

    # function hook in LightningModule
    def optimizer_step(
        self, epoch, batch_idx, optimizer, optimizer_idx, optimizer_closure,
        on_tpu=False, using_native_amp=False, using_lbfgs=False,
    ):
        # `optimizer` is a `LightningOptimizer` wrapping the optimizer.
        # To access it, do as follow:
        optimizer = optimizer.optimizer

        # run step. However, it won't work on TPU, AMP, etc...

>         optimizer.step(closure=optimizer_closure)

Reviewer: You should merge this with the note in

https://github.com/PyTorchLightning/pytorch-lightning/pull/6907/files#diff-f91783b13a45bd611ed87185b906c97af54c613882eeee65adcf8ec89b1723c2R60-R65

Author: Updated the note there. Mind having a look again?

.. testcode::
.. testcode:: python

    # function hook in LightningModule
    def optimizer_step(self, current_epoch, batch_nb, optimizer, optimizer_idx, closure, on_tpu=False, using_native_amp=False, using_lbfgs=False):
      optimizer.step(closure=closure)
   # function hook in LightningModule
   def optimizer_step(self, epoch, batch_idx, optimizer, optimizer_idx, optimizer_closure, on_tpu=False, using_native_amp=False, using_lbfgs=False):
       optimizer.step(closure=optimizer_closure)

.. note:: To access your wrapped Optimizer from ``LightningOptimizer``, do as follow.

.. testcode::

    # function hook in LightningModule
    def optimizer_step(self, current_epoch, batch_nb, optimizer, optimizer_idx, closure, on_tpu=False, using_native_amp=False, using_lbfgs=False):

      # `optimizer is a ``LightningOptimizer`` wrapping the optimizer.
      # To access it, do as follow:
      optimizer = optimizer.optimizer

      # run step. However, it won't work on TPU, AMP, etc...
      optimizer.step(closure=closure)

----------

> Using the closure functions for optimization

Author: This section is completely removed because
1. from 1.2.2, this isn't needed even when using LBFGS-like optimizers
2. It doesn't include `zero_grad` in the closure function, so this example is wrong anyway.
